KEYCLOAK_SETUP.md, before:

# Keycloak (local dev)

## 1) Start Keycloak

From the repo root:

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.keycloak.yml up
```

Then open `http://localhost:8080` and log in with:

- username: `admin`
- password: `admin`

This compose file imports a realm named `photo-gallery` and a confidential OIDC client named `photo-gallery`.

## Login styling (Keycloak theme)

This repo includes a custom Keycloak login theme that matches the app’s look-and-feel:

- Theme files: `keycloak/themes/photo-gallery/login`
- CSS to tweak: `keycloak/themes/photo-gallery/login/resources/css/photogallery.css`

The realm import (`keycloak/import/photo-gallery-realm.json`) sets `"loginTheme": "photo-gallery"` and the compose file mounts `./keycloak/themes` into the container.

If you already started Keycloak before adding/changing the theme, restart and re-import the realm:

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.keycloak.yml down -v
docker compose -f docker-compose.keycloak.yml up
```

Alternatively, in the Keycloak admin UI: Realm Settings → Themes → Login theme → `photo-gallery`.

## 2) Create a Keycloak user

In the Keycloak admin UI:

- Realm: `photo-gallery`
- Users → Create user
- Set a password (Credentials tab)

## 3) Run the app with OIDC enabled

Set env vars (or put them into your IDE run config):

```bash
export KEYCLOAK_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8080
export KEYCLOAK_REALM=photo-gallery
export KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID=photo-gallery
export KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET=change-me
```

Then start the app and visit `http://localhost:8090/login` → “Continue with Keycloak”.

## Local auth fallback (no Keycloak)

Run the app with:

```bash
--spring.profiles.active=local
```

Commit message:

feat: Implement album cover photo service and download functionality
- Added AlbumCoverService to derive cover photo IDs for albums.
- Introduced DownloadService for handling photo downloads and ZIP file creation.
- Created PhotoVariant enum to manage different photo variants (original and web).
- Developed ShareTokenService for managing share tokens at the album level.
- Added database migrations for public IDs, album visibility, and share tokens.
- Updated album and landing templates to support new features and share links.
- Implemented share gallery and share error templates for user-friendly sharing experience.

KEYCLOAK_SETUP.md, after:

# Keycloak (local dev)

## 1) Start Keycloak

From the repo root:

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.keycloak.yml up
```

Then open `http://localhost:8080` and log in with:

- username: `admin`
- password: `admin`

This compose file imports a realm named `photo-gallery` and a confidential OIDC client named `photo-gallery`.

## Login styling (Keycloak theme)

This repo includes a custom Keycloak login theme that matches the app’s look-and-feel:

- Theme files: `keycloak/themes/photo-gallery/login`
- CSS to tweak: `keycloak/themes/photo-gallery/login/resources/css/photogallery.css`

The realm import (`keycloak/import/photo-gallery-realm.json`) sets `"loginTheme": "photo-gallery"` and the compose file mounts `./keycloak/themes` into the container.

If you already started Keycloak before adding/changing the theme, restart and re-import the realm:

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.keycloak.yml down -v
docker compose -f docker-compose.keycloak.yml up
```

Alternatively, in the Keycloak admin UI: Realm Settings → Themes → Login theme → `photo-gallery`.

## 2) Create a Keycloak user

In the Keycloak admin UI:

- Realm: `photo-gallery`
- Users → Create user
- Set a password (Credentials tab)

## 3) Run the app

Set env vars (or put them into your IDE run config):

```bash
export KEYCLOAK_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8080
export KEYCLOAK_REALM=photo-gallery
export KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID=photo-gallery
export KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET=change-me
```

Then start the app and visit `http://localhost:8090/login`.

If you see “Invalid redirect uri” on sign out:
- In Keycloak admin → Clients → `photo-gallery` → Logout settings, add `http://localhost:8090/*` (or at least `http://localhost:8090/login?logout`) to “Valid post logout redirect URIs”.
